Now that we have stated the goal of the paper, let us immediately make a detour.
We will state definitions and relevant theorems (without proof) in compact form with ample references so that a reader can catch up if necessary.
The advanced reader can skip this section and move straight to the next topic without issue.

[[todo]] (put references for everything in each section)

Throughout the whole text, unless otherwise stated, G
is a countable discrete group. Its identity element will always be denoted by e.

# Measure Spaces
A _measurable space_ is a pair $(X, \mathscr{B})$ where $X$ is a set and $\mathscr{B}$ is a $\sigma$-algebra of subsets of $X$. Elements of $\mathscr{B}$ are called _measurable sets_. A function of measurable spaces $f: X \rightarrow Y$ is called _measurable_ if $f^{-1}(A)$ is a measurable set in $X$ for all measurable sets $A$ of $Y$.

A _measure_ on a measurable space $(X, \mathscr{B})$ is a map $\mu: \mathscr{B} \rightarrow [0, \infty]$ such that
- $\mu(\emptyset) = 0$, and
- $\mu(\cup_{n=1}^{\infty} A_n) = \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \mu(A_n)$ for every countable collection $\{A_n\}_{n=1}^{\infty}$ of pairwise disjoint sets in $\mathscr{B}$ (countable additivity).

[[todo]]: borel measure,
The Borel $\sigma$-algebra of a topological space $X$ is the $\sigma$-algebra $\mathscr{B}$ generated by the
open subsets of $X$ , and the members of $\mathscr{B}$ are called Borel sets (we may also refer to them as measurable sets if we are viewing $(X, \mathscr{B})$ abstractly as a measurable space).
A Borel measure on $X$ is a probability measure on the Borel $\sigma$-algebra of $X$.

## Representations

The notation(s) in representation theory are sometimes confusing, so here we clarify which words we will use to mean which objects. We will revisit representations in detail in the following chapter, so we will be brief.
\begin{defn}
A representation is a group-homomorphism from a group into the general linear group of a vector space.
$$
\pi: G \rightarrow GL(V)
$$
\end{defn}
We consistently use lowercase Greek letters to refer to representations. Most often $\pi$ and $\lambda$.

The vector space $V$ is often not just a vector space but a topological vector space and in particular a Hilbert space.

[[todo]] (all of this)
repr: a map
dim of a repr
agree with topology.
unitary repr. 
A unitary representation 

## "direct difference" notation
Zimmer, and we, use the symbol "$\ominus$" to denote "subtraction" of linear subspaces of Hilbert spaces.
If $A \subset B$ are linear subspaces of a Hilbert space, $B \ominus A = \{x \in B: (x,y) = 0 \text{ for all }y \in A\}$.
## Group Actions
By an action of the group $G$ on a set $X$ we mean a map $\alpha: G \times X \rightarrow X$ such that, writing the first argument as a subscript, $\alpha_s(\alpha_t(x)) = \alpha_{st}(x)$ and $\alpha_e(x) = x$ for all
$x \in X$ and $s, t \in G$.
Most of the time we will not give this map a name and write the image of a pair $(s, x)$ written as $sx$, or as $s \cdot x$ if there is a chance of notational confusion.
For sets $A \subset X$ and $K \subset G$ and an $s \in G$ we write
$$
s A = \{sx : x \in A\},
\quad
K x = \{sx : s \in K \},
\quad
K A = \{sx : x \in A \text{ and } s \in K \}.
$$
The _G-orbit_ of a point $x \in X$ is the set $Gx$.

[[todo]]: hilbert spaces.

[[todo]]: quasi-invariant and invariant, measures and topologies together, borel

\begin{defn}{quasi-invariant}
A measure $\mu$ is quasi-invariant under a group action of $G$ if it preserves null sets.
If $A = gA$ then either $\mu(A)=0$ or $\mu(S\setminus A)=0$.
\end{defn}


[[todo]]: ergodicity
## Ergodicity
We have successfully made our way back to ergodicity. We will try to illuminate the definition a bit by examples and non-examples.

To reiterate
\begin{defn}{Ergodicity}
For a group $G$, a measurable separable space $S$, and a $G$-invariant measure $\mu$. An action is called ergodic if all $G$-invariant subsets $A\subset S$ are either null or conull. Which means 
$$
\forall g\in G:\ gA = A \quad \Rightarrow \quad \mu(A)=0 \text{ or } \mu(S\setminus A)=0
$$
\end{defn}
definition; explanation of definition; Examples; why the prerequisites come in, like quasi-invariance; clarify edge cases.
summarize by "complicated orbits" argument (could use 2.1.7 as example of complicatedness).